Replace "User Interaction" With Client/Origin Behavior (#474)
ietf-wg-privacypass/base-drafts: draft-ietf-privacypass-auth-scheme.md

of the different deployment models).

## Choosing to Redeem Tokens

Some applications of tokens might require clients to always present a token
as authentication in order to successfully make requests. For example, a restricted
service that wants to only allow access to valid users, but do so without learning
specific user Identities, could use tokens that are based on attesting user
credentials. In these kinds of use cases, clients will need to always redeem a
token in order to successfully make a request.

Many other use cases for Privacy Pass tokens involve open services that interact
with some clients that either cannot redeem tokens, or can only sometimes redeem
tokens. For example, a service can use tokens as a way to reduce the incidence of
presenting CAPTCHAs to users. In such use cases that are meant for open services,
clients will regularly encounter challenges for which they cannot redeem a token; and,
even clients that could redeem a token can choose not to. In order to mitigate the risk
of these services relying on always receiving tokens, clients can ignore token
challenges (and thus not redeem a token on a subsequent request) with some

> non-zero probability. See {{Section 5.1 of ARCHITECTURE}} for further considerations

Author: ```suggestion
non-trivial probability. See {{Section 5.1 of ARCHITECTURE}} for further considerations
```

> on avoiding discriminatory behavior across clients when using Privacy Pass tokens.

Author: Another way to put this is "if you are a client that can only sometimes actually get a token, even in cases where you _could_ get a token, act as if you can't".

Very practically speaking, if you're getting a challenge from a captcha provider, and you'll only sometimes reply (for example on macOS and iOS we only allow responding if you're actually in the foreground running app, and if you haven't gone over some rate limit for number of tokens in a given period of time), the client can choose to act as if it doesn't have a token, and thus the user would occasionally see a captcha. That's a legitimate choice to make, for these case where the services don't rely on receiving tokens.

> on avoiding discriminatory behavior across clients when using Privacy Pass tokens.

Reviewer: What does that look like in practice though?  `Authorization: PrivateToken 🙅" ?

> on avoiding discriminatory behavior across clients when using Privacy Pass tokens.

Reviewer 2: It means you wouldn't send any authorization header.

> on avoiding discriminatory behavior across clients when using Privacy Pass tokens.

Author: Right, the client just doesn't make any requests that include a token. Do what a client would do that doesn't even implement the auth scheme.

> on avoiding discriminatory behavior across clients when using Privacy Pass tokens.

Reviewer: What would change such that the client would expect a different outcome?  See also https://quoteinvestigator.com/2017/03/23/same/

> on avoiding discriminatory behavior across clients when using Privacy Pass tokens.

Author: The client would not issue a new request at all. That is what a client does that doesn't implement the auth scheme. I never said the client would issue the same request again.

> on avoiding discriminatory behavior across clients when using Privacy Pass tokens.

Author: It is now spelled out:
```
can ignore token challenges (and instead behave as if they were a client
that either doesn't support redeeming tokens or is unable to generate a new token, by not
sending a new request that contains a token to redeem) with some
non-trivial probability.
```

Clients might also choose to not redeem tokens in subsequent requests when the
token challenges indicate erroneous or malicious behavior on the part of the
challenging origin. For example, if a client’s ability to generate tokens via an
attester and issuer is limited to a certain rate, a malicious origin could send
an excessive number of token challenges with unique redemption contexts
in order to cause the client to exhaust its ability to generate new tokens, or

> to overwhelm issuance servers. The limits here will vary based on the specific

Reviewer: Reading this, I am reminded that it the potential for token hoarding and trading also produces a desire to rate limit issuance.  I went looking for something in the architecture draft and came up short.  The best I could do was [Section 7.1](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-ietf-privacypass-architecture#section-7.1).  Is that worth spending some text on?

Author: Marking as resolved since we now have text on that

on token caching.

# Origin Behavior {#origin-behavior}

Origins choose what token challenges to send to clients, which will vary
depending on the use case and deployment model. The origin chooses
which token types, issuers, redemption contexts, and origin info to include
in challenges. If an origin sends multiple challenges, each challenge SHOULD
be equivalent in terms of acceptability for token redemption, since clients
are free to choose to generate tokens based on any of the challenges.

Origins ought to consider the time involved in token issuance. Particularly,
a challenge that includes a unique redemption context will prevent a client
from using cached tokens, and thus can add more latency before the client
is able to redeem a token.

Origins SHOULD minimize the number of challenges sent to a particular client
context (referred to as the "redemption context" in
{{Section 3.3 of ARCHITECTURE}}), to avoid overwhelming clients and issuers
with token requests that might cause clients to hit rate limits.

## Greasing

In order to prevent clients becoming incompatible with new token challenges,
origins SHOULD include random token types, from the Reserved list of "greased"

> types (defined in {{token-types}}), with some non-zero probability.

Author: Agreed.

Additionally, for deployments where tokens are not required (such as when tokens
are used as a way to avoiding showing CAPTCHAs), origins SHOULD randomly 

> choose to not challenge clients for tokens with some non-zero probability.

Reviewer: I'm really struggling with the incentive structure that surrounds this "SHOULD".  It almost reads like an [OUGHT TO](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc6919#section-4).

Author: ```suggestion
Additionally, for deployments where tokens are not required (such as when tokens
are used as a way to avoiding showing CAPTCHAs), origins SHOULD randomly 
choose to not challenge clients for tokens with some non-trivial probability.
This helps origins ensure that their behavior for handling clients that cannot
redeem tokens is maintained and exercised consistently.
```

Modifying the text here to explain. In the CAPTCHA scenario, the CAPTCHA providers already often do some amount of "probing" anyway to keep measuring the background fraud rates, and will choose to show CAPTCHAs instead of getting tokens for some small percentage of the population.

> choose to not challenge clients for tokens with some non-zero probability.

Author: ```suggestion
choose to not challenge clients for tokens with some non-trivial probability.
```

The approach to these choices depends on the use case of the application, as
well as the deployment model (see {{Section 4 of ARCHITECTURE}} for discussion
of the different deployment models).

## Choosing to Redeem Tokens

Some applications of tokens might require clients to always present a token
as authentication in order to successfully make requests. For example, a restricted
service that wants to only allow access to valid users, but do so without learning
specific user credential information, could use tokens that are based on attesting user
credentials. In these kinds of use cases, clients will need to always redeem a
token in order to successfully make a request.

Many other use cases for Privacy Pass tokens involve open services that must work
with any client, including those that either cannot redeem tokens, or can only sometimes redeem
tokens. For example, a service can use tokens as a way to reduce the incidence of
presenting CAPTCHAs to users. In such use cases, services will regularly encounter
clients that cannot redeem a token or choose not to. In order to mitigate the risk
of these services relying on always receiving tokens, clients that are capable of

> redeeming tokens can ignore token challenges (and thus not redeem a token on
> a subsequent request) with some
> non-trivial probability. See {{Section 5.1 of ARCHITECTURE}} for further considerations
> on avoiding discriminatory behavior across clients when using Privacy Pass tokens.

Author: ```suggestion
redeeming tokens can ignore token challenges (and instead behave as if they were a client
that either doesn't support redeeming tokens or is unable to generate a new token, by not
sending a new request that contains a token to redeem) with some
non-trivial probability. See {{Section 5.1 of ARCHITECTURE}} for further considerations
on avoiding discriminatory behavior across clients when using Privacy Pass tokens.
```
